#textbook_advanced-r #r 

```r
x <- c(1, 2, 3)
```

- It's easy to read this as 'create an object named "x", containing the values 1, 2, 3', but this is an oversimplification and a misrepresentation of what occurs in the back end.
- More accurately, R is:
  - Creating an object (the vector of 1, 2, 3); and,
  - Binding that object to a name, `x`

In other words, names are references to values. `c(1, 2, 3)` will now be given an address in memory; you can get this address by running `lobstr::obj_addr(x)`.

- You can bind another name to an existing object in memory by doing this. Now both `x` and `y` point to the one object with a single address in memory

```r
y <- x # now both x & y point to the same address

lobstr::obj_addr(x) # address is 0x7feba894c538
lobstr::obj_addr(y) # address is 0x7feba894c538 (the same)
```

In a similar manner, if you're accessing a particular object by referencing it in different ways, it'll always point back to the same address.

```r
lobstr::obj_addr(mean)              #> "0x7febc89be000"
lobstr::obj_addr(base::mean)        #> "0x7febc89be000"
lobstr::obj_addr(get('mean'))       #> "0x7febc89be000"
lobstr::obj_addr(evalq(mean))       #> "0x7febc89be000"
lobstr::obj_addr(match.fun('mean')) #> "0x7febc89be000"
```

## 2.2.1 Non-syntactic names

A *syntactic* (i.e. valid) object name in R must consist of letters, digits, `.` and `_` but can't begin with `_` or a digit (it can start with a dot, as long as that dot isn't followed by a number). You also can't use reserved keywords (like `TRUE`, `if`, `function` - see full list with `?Reserved`).

Trying to name something with a non-syntactic name the usual way will result in an error, if you want to do that, you'll need to wrap the name in backticks.

```r
`_abc` <- 1
`if` <- 2
```

It's unlikely that you'll want to name things like this, but you need to know how they work since you'll run into them when loading data.

- `read.csv()` will by default automatically convert non-syntactic column names to syntactic ones Remove this behaviour by setting `check.names = FALSE`.
  - It does this by calling `make.names()` which prepends `X` if necessary, converts invalid characters to `.`, and appends dots to R keywords.