#textbook_advanced-r #r 

There are some exceptions to when R makes a copy of an object if it gets modified:
- Objects with a single name binding get a special performance optimisation
- Environments (a special type of object) are always modified in place

## 2.5.1 Objects with a single binding

This behaviour is hard to predict due to some complications:
- R can only count 0, 1, or many bindings to an object - so once an object receives two names and one goes away, R still counts it as 'many'.
- The vast majority of functions make a (additional?) reference to the object when called on it. The exception are specially written 'primitive' C functions.

It's better to determine this empirically with `tracemem()` due to these complications.

This topic can be explored in the context of for-loops. For-loops have a reputation for being slow in R but this is because every iteration of the loop might be creating a copy.

```r
x <- data.frame(matrix(runif(5 * 1e4), ncol = 5))
medians <- vapply(x, median, numeric(1))
cat(tracemem(x), '\n')
#> <0x7feb8f240138> 

for (i in 1:5) {x[[i]] <- x[[i]] - medians[[i]]}
#> tracemem[0x7feb8f240138 -> 0x7febb07fc508]: 
#> tracemem[0x7febb07fc508 -> 0x7febb07fc498]: [[<-.data.frame [[<- 
#> tracemem[0x7febb07fc498 -> 0x7febb07fc428]: 
#> tracemem[0x7febb07fc428 -> 0x7febb07fc3b8]: [[<-.data.frame [[<- 
#> tracemem[0x7febb07fc3b8 -> 0x7febb07fc348]: 
#> tracemem[0x7febb07fc348 -> 0x7febb07fc2d8]: [[<-.data.frame [[<- 
#> tracemem[0x7febb07fc2d8 -> 0x7febb07fc268]: 
#> tracemem[0x7febb07fc268 -> 0x7febb07fc1f8]: [[<-.data.frame [[<- 
#> tracemem[0x7febb07fc1f8 -> 0x7febb07fc188]: 
#> tracemem[0x7febb07fc188 -> 0x7febb07fc118]: [[<-.data.frame [[<- 
```

We can see the data-frame is copied twice every iteration (note that it's actually copied 3 times in the book). This is because:
- Copies are made by `\[\[.data.frame` 
- `\[\[.data.frame`  is a regular function that increments the reference count of `x`

Instead of this, we can use lists. Modifying lists uses internal C code, so references are not incremented and only a single copy is made.

```r
y <- as.list(x)
untracemem(x)
cat(tracemem(y), '\n')
#> <0x7feb6d2306b8> 

for (i in 1:5) {y[[i]] <- y[[i]] - medians[[i]]}
#> tracemem[0x7feb6d2306b8 -> 0x7feb7eed1878]: 
```

If you find yourself resorting to exotic tricks to avoid copies, it might be time to [[rewrite your function in C++]].

## 2.5.2 Environments

More on this in [[Chapter 7]].

An environment's behaviour is different from other objects - they are always modified in place. this property is sometimes described as *reference semantics* because when you modify an environment, all existing bindings to that environment continue to have the same reference.

```r
e1 <- rlang::env(a = 1, b = 2, c = 3)
e2 <- e1

# Modifying one and viewing the other
e1$c <- 4
e2$c
#> [1] 4
```

This idea can be used to create functions that 'remember' their previous state ([[Section 10.2.4]]), this property is also used to implement the R6 object-oriented programming system ([[Chapter 14]]).

Because of this, environments can contain themselves; this is a unique property.

```r
e <- rlang::env()
e$self <- e

ref(e)
#> █ [1:0x7fe114214cd8] <env> 
#> └─self = [1:0x7fe114214cd8]
```