#textbook_advanced-r #r 

When we do this:

```r
x <- 1:3
x <- 2:4
rm(x)
```

We're binding `1:3` to `x`, then binding `2:4` to `x` instead, then removing that binding. We're left with objects `1:3` and `2:4` with no bindings on either.

How do these objects get deleted? That's the job of the *garbage collector* (GC) which frees up memory by deleting R objects that are no longer used and requesting more memory from the operating system if needed.

R uses a *tracing* GC, it traces every object that's reachable from the global environment and all objects that are reachable from those objects. The GC will run automatically whenever R needs more memory to create a new object.
- It is hard to predict when R is going to run the GC, if you want to be alerted every time it runs, call `gcinfo(TRUE)` for console messages whenever it runs
- You can force garbage collection by calling `gc()`, but there's never any *need* to call it yourself unless you need more memory released to your operating system so other programs can use it (or for the side effect which shows how much memory is being used).

To find the total memory used you can also run `lobstr::mem_used()`.

```r
gc() 
#>           used (Mb) gc trigger  (Mb) limit (Mb) max used (Mb)
#> Ncells  884876 47.3    1698228  90.7         NA  1478961   79
#> Vcells 5026893 38.4   17228590 131.5      16384 17226182  132

lobstr::mem_used()
#> 89,748,952 B
```

These numbers won't match with the memory reported by your operating system because:
1. It includes objects created by R but not by the R interpreter
2. Both R and the operating system are lazy, they won't reclaim memory until it's actually needed. R might be holding on to memory because the OS hasn't yet asked for it back
3. R counts the memory occupied by objects but there may be empty gaps due to deleted objects. This problem is known as memory fragmentation